Concepts.asciidoc, before:

Almost everything should be represented in shared mechanics - these are pointbuy, and come in trees. Each thing is fairly fine grained, and has both a crunch and a fluff aspect. In general, no dicerolling here, as these mechanics have to be portable. Instead, we use the Call, State of Being, Card/Tag/Band, and other kind of Card system to resolve these things.
There are five kinds of points: XP, GP, $P, BP, ❄P.

The only other thing is representing the inverse of physrepping, for which we use the Competence system. This is deliberately kept small, with no pointbuy aspects, as it is not portable; there is a different manifestation of the Competence system for each kind of venue.
- Larp
  - Your Competence at a thing is based on whether you actually pull it off - eg do you hit the person with the sword so that you can use your stabbing based ability.
- Wargaming
  - The Scatter system
    - Different things have a different degree of Scatter, with modifiers based on green/standard/veteran/elite status.
    - Use the listed dice to determine Scatter.
- RPG
  - Several possibilities, but all are based on assigning the playgroup a 'level', and with pass below the level, fail above the level, and coin flips at the level.


The stack/turn system for resolving actions.
Action speed and validity of action.
Interrupt and Instant can be done any time - Interrupts go backwards in time, Instants resolve in order.
Endeavour. Goes at normal speed, can only be done in your own turn, can't be done in response to an Instant or Interrupt.
- The only difference between the different venues of play is the level of ornamentation.

Tokens.

Typed things.

Commit message:

Add note about attributes affecting competence levels.

Concepts.asciidoc, after:

Almost everything should be represented in shared mechanics - these are pointbuy, and come in trees. Each thing is fairly fine grained, and has both a crunch and a fluff aspect. In general, no dicerolling here, as these mechanics have to be portable. Instead, we use the Call, State of Being, Card/Tag/Band, and other kind of Card system to resolve these things.
There are five kinds of points: XP, GP, $P, BP, ❄P.

The only other thing is representing the inverse of physrepping, for which we use the Competence system. This is deliberately kept small, with no pointbuy aspects, as it is not portable; there is a different manifestation of the Competence system for each kind of venue.
- Larp
  - Your Competence at a thing is based on whether you actually pull it off - eg do you hit the person with the sword so that you can use your stabbing based ability.
- Wargaming
  - The Scatter system
    - Different things have a different degree of Scatter, with modifiers based on green/standard/veteran/elite status
    - The complicated option uses a scoring system based off tags, cost, and level for attributes to precalculate static status modifiers for specific scatter rolls
    - Use the listed dice to determine Scatter.
- RPG
  - Several possibilities, but all are based on assigning the playgroup a 'level', and with pass below the level, fail above the level, and coin flips at the level.
  - The complicated option uses a scoring system based off tags, cost, and level for attributes to calculate competence levels for tasks, with a base competence level in general.


The stack/turn system for resolving actions.
Action speed and validity of action.
Interrupt and Instant can be done any time - Interrupts go backwards in time, Instants resolve in order.
Endeavour. Goes at normal speed, can only be done in your own turn, can't be done in response to an Instant or Interrupt.
- The only difference between the different venues of play is the level of ornamentation.

Tokens.

Typed things.
